---
title: "Note of data science training EP 14 END – Data scientists did their mistakes"
layout: post
description: Here are the advices for frequent mistakes committed by data scientists.
date: 2020-09-19 00:00:00 +0200
categories: [data, data science]
tags: [mistakes, best practices, data scientists]
image:
  path: ../assets/img/features/bilal-o-ljXekphwr40-unsplash.jpg
  alt: Unsplash / Bilal O.
  caption: <a href="https://unsplash.com/photos/blue-and-pink-water-droplets-ljXekphwr40">Unsplash / Bilal O.</a>
---

[expand-series]

  1. [Note of data science training EP 1: Intro – unboxing]({% post_url 2020-01-12-data-sci-1 %})
  1. [Note of data science training EP 2: Pandas & Matplotlib – from a thousand mile above]({% post_url 2020-01-24-data-sci-2 %})
  1. [Note of data science training EP 3: Matplotlib & Seaborn – Luxury visualization]({% post_url 2020-01-24-data-sci-3 %})
  1. [Note of data science training EP 4: Scikit-learn & Linear Regression – Linear trending]({% post_url 2020-02-17-data-sci-4 %})
  1. [Note of data science training EP 5: Logistic Regression & Dummy Classifier – Divide and Predict]({% post_url 2020-02-27-data-sci-5 %})
  1. [Note of data science training EP 6: Decision Tree – At a point of distraction]({% post_url 2020-03-02-data-sci-6 %})
  1. [Note of data science training EP 7: Metrics – It is qualified]({% post_url 2020-03-12-data-sci-7 %})
  1. [Note of data science training EP 8: Ensemble – Avenger's ensemble]({% post_url 2020-04-15-data-sci-8 %})
  1. [Note of data science training EP 9: NetworkX – Map of Marauder in real world]({% post_url 2020-05-14-data-sci-9 %})
  1. [Note of data science training EP 10: Cluster – collecting and clustering]({% post_url 2020-06-08-data-sci-10 %})
  1. [Note of data science training EP 11: NLP & Spacy – Languages are borderless]({% post_url 2020-07-07-data-sci-11 %})
  1. [Note of data science training EP 12: skimage – Look out carefully]({% post_url 2020-07-27-data-sci-12 %})
  1. [Note of data science training EP 13: Regularization – make it regular with Regularization]({% post_url 2020-09-03-data-sci-13 %})
  1. Note of data science training EP 14 END – Data scientists did their mistakes

[/expand-series]

This is the last class of the training and I’d like to thanks **Mr.James Larkin**, **Mr. Greg Baker**, and **Mr. Attapol Thamrongrattanarit** for devoting their efforts to share knowledge to me and friends.

And here are the advices for frequent mistakes committed by data scientists.

---

## Question

What mistakes do data scientists often make?

---

## Mr. Larkin answers

There are mistakes generally made by data scientists new to the field. Some high level issues I’ve seen in work environments are:

1. **Focusing more on the algorithms than the data itself**  
  Success is needed but data insights or something lies in it are prior.
1. **Picking unfit algorithms for their work**  
  This often occurs because the data scientists want to test out some new, powerful but black box options. It may not be fit or suitable for data of the work.
1. **Poor data understanding**  
  First steps are data exploring, cleansing, and visualizing. There are 99% of the time that we attempt to skim through data and choosing an algorithm. A veteran data scientist tends to efficiently dive deep into the dataset.
1. **Experience-wise**  
  Experiences are good. Nevertheless sometimes we should focus more on data not the learned experience. The data can be changed overtime and we data scientists need to chase it.
1. **Team and communication**  
  A lot of fairly good works can go nowhere in an organization. This is because they were not explained clearly and effectively to the appropriate stakeholders.
  
---

They are benefit to us and some are able to be applied in other works.

This is the end of this series, I would say.

And I will pick it up for you for what’s next. Stay tuned.
