---
title: Stay in team at Khao Yai
layout: post
description:
date: 2019-12-21 00:00:00 +0200
categories: []
tags: []
pin: true
math: true
mermaid: true
image:
  path: assets/img/features/waranont-joe-BvNNxnzds4U-unsplash.jpg
  alt: Unsplash / Woranont (Joe)
  caption: <a href="">Unsplash / Waranont (Joe)</a>
---

Hi ~ Hi!

Last weekend, we had a trip to Khao Yai and this time is my show-off time.

---

Dec 14, 2019
12:30 PM
Palio Khao Yai
This was a first place of my trip. Palio is an attractive place in European style, I guessed.
I captured this video of dancers before left.

---

Dec 14, 2019
02:30 PM
The Chocolate Factory
Few photos because of me diving in its taste. I can say there are not only edible merchandises here but many organic goods sold here.

---

Dec 14, 2019
03:00 PM
Buddhism Memorial Park – Luang Phu Tuad
This is a park not a temple so there is no convents of monks but a single gigantic statue of "Luang Phu Tuad" who is very famous in southern of Thailand.
We can do merit here or even "pass under elephant’s belly" for luck.

---

Dec 14, 2019
04:00 PM
Napasawan resort
Here was my bed surrounded by nature. We had party until midnight. It was the funniest one I ever had.

---

Dec 15, 2019
10:00 AM
Khao Yai
It was the climax of this trip. Unexpectedly, there were still lots of cars and bikes. I guessed because it’s weekend time. Going deeper and we stopped by "Sai Sorn reservoir" at the last before went out.
On that day, it was cold windy but strong sunlight. Ahh seems I got cold, haha.

---

Dec 15, 2019
02:00 PM
Chokchai farm
It’s the last checkpoint before back to Bangkok. This is very popular farm in Thailand as there are good products of dairy. Baby goats, sheep, and horses were here with cuteness.
No sponsors. Their sweets are tasty and I got souvenirs here. It’s cute I can say.

---

It’s a fun trip, I can say.

See you again when I got something interesting to tell.

Bye~
