---
title:
layout: post
author: bluebirz
description:
# date:
categories: []
tags: []
pin: false
math: false
mermaid: false
comment: true
# series:
#   key: asd
#   index: 1
image:
  path: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1754548930574-6a995e5eb5a7?q=80&w=1631&auto=format&fit=crop&ixlib=rb-4.1.0&ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MHxwaG90by1wYWdlfHx8fGVufDB8fHx8fA%3D%3D
  lqip: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1754548930574-6a995e5eb5a7?q=10&w=490&auto=format&fit=crop&ixlib=rb-4.1.0&ixid=M3wxMjA3fDB8MHxwaG90by1wYWdlfHx8fGVufDB8fHx8fA%3D%3D
  alt: Unsplash / Jakub Żerdzicki
  caption: <a href="https://images.freeimages.com/images/large-previews/89f/feedback-form-excellent-1238383.jpg?fmt=webp">Unsplash / Jakub Żerdzicki</a>
---

Only consuming data is not enough. We have to refine, assure, and verify whether the data in our hands is sufficiently qualified.

Here we are talking about data quality

---

## Why data quality?

Data naturally is dirty and we always have to clean and validate it before using. That's why data cleansing is necessary.

---

## Data quality dimensions

### Uniqueness

Uniqueness measures whether the data is distinct with no duplicates.

```sql
SELECT column_name
FROM table_name
GROUP BY column_name
HAIVING COUNT(column_name) > 1;
```

### Freshness

Freshness measures when the data was last updated. Having this information can help you determine whether the data is recent enough to be useful.

### Volume

Volume measures whether all of the expected data is present.

### Completeness

Completeness assesses whether the data contains all of the information that's required for its intended purpose.

### Validity

Validity evaluates whether the data conforms to predefined standards for format, acceptable ranges, or other criteria. For example, if a valid date needs to have the format `YYYY/mm/dd`, then 08-12-2019 is invalid data. As another example, if a valid sales price for an item is between $10 and $20, then a sales price of $100 is invalid data.

### Consistency

Consistency refers to having the same values for data across multiple instances, such as tables and columns. Inconsistency in data arises when, for example, the revenue of a product differs when it is read from a sales database or a usage database.

### Accuracy

Accuracy reflects the correctness of the data. Note that data that is valid isn't necessarily accurate. For example, a valid hair color might be brown, but if a person doesn't have brown hair, that is inaccurate data.

---

## References

- [Auto data quality overview  \|  Dataplex Universal Catalog  \|  Google Cloud](https://cloud.google.com/dataplex/docs/auto-data-quality-overview)
